pages/wiki/python-tools/poetry.md, before:

# Poetry

Poetry is a dependency manager and build tool for Python. It is designed to simplify and streamline the process of managing and installing packages for Python projects.

## Installation

To install Poetry, follow these steps:

```bash
curl -sSL https://raw.githubusercontent.com/python-poetry/poetry/master/get-poetry.py | python -
```

## Creating a New Project

```bash
poetry new myproject
```

This command creates a new directory named `myproject` and initializes it with a basic project structure and a `pyproject.toml` file, which is used by Poetry to manage project dependencies.

## Managing Dependencies

Poetry allows you to manage dependencies for your project using the `pyproject.toml` file. Here are some common commands and their usage:

- **Add a dependency**:

  ```bash
  poetry add package_name
  ```

  This command installs the specified package and its dependencies and adds it to the `pyproject.toml` file.

- **Add a dependency in development mode**:

  ```bash
  poetry add -D package_name
  ```

  > **Warning**: -D or -dev option is [deprecated], use the `--group dev` notation instead.

  ```bash
  poetry add --group dev package_name
  ```

- **Remove a dependency**:

  ```bash
  poetry remove package_name
  ```

  This command removes the specified package from the project and updates the `pyproject.toml` file.

- **Update all dependencies**:

  ```bash
  poetry update
  ```

  Use this command to update all dependencies to their latest versions.

- **Install dependencies**:

  ```bash
  poetry install
  ```

  This command installs all dependencies specified in the `pyproject.toml` file.

- **Export dependencies to a requirements file**:

  ```bash
  poetry export -f requirements.txt --output requirements.txt
  ```

  This command saves a list of all installed packages and their versions into a file named `requirements.txt`. You can use this file to share or replicate the exact environment on another machine.

## Environment Management

Poetry provides an integrated approach to manage Python environments for your projects. It creates a virtual environment specific to each project. Here are some environment-related commands:

- **Create a virtual environment**:

  ```bash
  poetry env use python3.9
  ```

  This command creates a virtual environment using the specified Python version (e.g., `python3.9`).

- **Activate the virtual environment**:

  ```bash
  poetry shell
  ```

  This command activates the virtual environment associated with your project, allowing you to work within an isolated environment.

- **Deactivate the virtual environment**:

  ```bash
  exit
  ```

  Use this command to exit the virtual environment and return to your system's default Python environment.

- **Remove the virtual environment**:

  To remove a virtual environment created by poetry you can simply delete the env

  For example:

  ```bash
  rm -rf ~/.cache/pypoetry/virtualenvs/scraper-2VoIUhnA-py3.5
  ```

  > **Note**: you can check the location of the env by executing `which python` after activating the env using `poetry shell`.

## Building and Running

Poetry provides several commands to build and run your Python project. Here are some common commands and their usage:

- **Build the project**:

  ```bash
  poetry build
  ```

  This command builds a distribution package for your project.

- **Run the project**:

  ```bash
  poetry run python myscript.py
  ```

  This command runs the specified Python script within the project's virtual environment.

## YouTube Videos

- **Quick overview**: [NeuralNine](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Qks3eqlImy8)

Commit message:

feat(poetry): add info about pyproject.toml

pages/wiki/python-tools/poetry.md, after:

# Poetry

Poetry is a dependency manager and build tool for Python. It is designed to simplify and streamline the process of managing and installing packages for Python projects.

## Installation

To install Poetry, follow these steps:

```bash
curl -sSL https://raw.githubusercontent.com/python-poetry/poetry/master/get-poetry.py | python -
```

## Creating a New Project

```bash
poetry new myproject
```

This command creates a new directory named `myproject` and initializes it with a basic project structure and a `pyproject.toml` file, which is used by Poetry to manage project dependencies.

## Managing Dependencies

Poetry allows you to manage dependencies for your project using the `pyproject.toml` file. Here are some common commands and their usage:

- **Add a dependency**:

  ```bash
  poetry add package_name
  ```

  This command installs the specified package and its dependencies and adds it to the `pyproject.toml` file.

- **Add a dependency in development mode**:

  ```bash
  poetry add -D package_name
  ```

  > **Warning**: -D or -dev option is [deprecated], use the `--group dev` notation instead.

  ```bash
  poetry add --group dev package_name
  ```

- **Remove a dependency**:

  ```bash
  poetry remove package_name
  ```

  This command removes the specified package from the project and updates the `pyproject.toml` file.

- **Update all dependencies**:

  ```bash
  poetry update
  ```

  Use this command to update all dependencies to their latest versions.

- **Install dependencies**:

  ```bash
  poetry install
  ```

  This command installs all dependencies specified in the `pyproject.toml` file.

- **Export dependencies to a requirements file**:

  ```bash
  poetry export -f requirements.txt --output requirements.txt
  ```

  This command saves a list of all installed packages and their versions into a file named `requirements.txt`. You can use this file to share or replicate the exact environment on another machine.

  > Here are other formats you can export to:

  - Constraints file:

    ```bash
    poetry export -f constraints.txt --output constraints.txt
    ```

    This command exports the dependencies into a `constraints.txt` file. A constraints file is useful for specifying the exact versions of packages that should be installed, serving as a way to limit the versions of packages when installing dependencies.

  - Setup.py file:

    ```bash
    poetry export -f setup.py --output setup.py
    ```

    This command generates a `setup.py` file, which is the traditional way of defining dependencies and package information in Python projects. It's useful if you need to distribute your package in a format compatible with projects that require a `setup.py`.

## Environment Management

Poetry provides an integrated approach to manage Python environments for your projects. It creates a virtual environment specific to each project. Here are some environment-related commands:

- **Create a virtual environment**:

  ```bash
  poetry env use python3.9
  ```

  This command creates a virtual environment using the specified Python version (e.g., `python3.9`).

- **Activate the virtual environment**:

  ```bash
  poetry shell
  ```

  This command activates the virtual environment associated with your project, allowing you to work within an isolated environment.

- **Deactivate the virtual environment**:

  ```bash
  exit
  ```

  Use this command to exit the virtual environment and return to your system's default Python environment.

- **Remove the virtual environment**:

  To remove a virtual environment created by poetry you can simply delete the env

  For example:

  ```bash
  rm -rf ~/.cache/pypoetry/virtualenvs/scraper-2VoIUhnA-py3.5
  ```

  > **Note**: you can check the location of the env by executing `which python` after activating the env using `poetry shell`.

## Building and Running

Poetry provides several commands to build and run your Python project. Here are some common commands and their usage:

- **Build the project**:

  ```bash
  poetry build
  ```

  This command builds a distribution package for your project.

- **Run the project**:

  ```bash
  poetry run python myscript.py
  ```

  This command runs the specified Python script within the project's virtual environment.

## Pyproject.toml

- Classifier

A Trove classifier categorizes Python software packages with descriptive labels, aiding users and tools in discovering packages based on their intended use, compatibility, and other attributes.

This system is essential for package managers like pip and platforms such as PyPI(Python Package Index), facilitating the search for packages that meet specific requirements or function in specific environments.

#### `YouTube:`

- **Quick overview**: [NeuralNine](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Qks3eqlImy8)
